Add docs for Row-level security (RLS) (#19527)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/v25.2/row-level-security.md

---
title: Row-Level Security (RLS) Overview
summary: Restrict access to specific rows of data based on user roles, permissions, or other criteria
toc: true
keywords: security, row level security, RLS
docs_area: develop
---

> Row Level Security (_RLS_) is a security feature that allows organizations to restrict access to specific rows of data in a database based on user [roles]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles), [permissions]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#authorization-models), or other criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Row-level security* (RLS) is a security feature that allows organizations to restrict access to specific rows of data in a database based on user [roles]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles), [permissions]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#authorization-models), or other criteria.
```

Author: ✅

## Use cases

Use cases for row-level security include:

- [Restricting access to sensitive data for compliance](#restricting-access-to-sensitive-data-for-compliance)
- [Designing multi-tenant applications](#designing-multi-tenant-applications)

### Restricting access to sensitive data for compliance

In industries like finance or healthcare, organizations are required to ensure that only authorized users access sensitive data. Row-level security (RLS) addresses this requirement directly within the database.

For example, RLS allows a financial institution to restrict access to customer records based on roles or departments. In healthcare, RLS can be used to enforce policies ensuring patient records are visible only to the medical staff involved in their care.

RLS embeds access control logic directly into the database and eliminates the need for manual filtering in application code. This centralized enforcement prevents inconsistencies, reduces security attack surface, and simplifies compliance with data access regulations.

> For an example, see [RLS for Data Security (Fine-Grained Access Control)](#rls-for-data-security-fine-grained-access-control).

Author: ✅

### Designing multi-tenant applications

> In multi-tenant applications such as typical Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) deployments, isolating data between tenants within shared tables is a requirement. Row-Level Security (RLS) provides a database-level mechanism for enforcing this isolation. SaaS providers can utilize RLS policies to ensure tenants can only access their own data, eliminating the need for complex and potentially insecure application-layer filtering logic based on tenant IDs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In multi-tenant applications such as typical Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) deployments, isolating data between tenants within shared tables is a requirement. Row-level security (RLS) provides a database-level mechanism for enforcing this isolation. SaaS providers can utilize RLS policies to ensure tenants can only access their own data, eliminating the need for complex and potentially insecure application-layer filtering logic based on tenant IDs.
```

Author: ✅

> For an example, see [RLS for Multi-Tenant Isolation](#rls-for-multi-tenant-isolation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an example, refer to [RLS for Multi-Tenant Isolation](#rls-for-multi-tenant-isolation).
```

Author: ✅

## How to use row-level security

At a high level, the steps for using row-level security (RLS) are as follows:

> 1. Create [schema objects]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/schema-design-overview.md %}) and [insert data]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/insert-data.md %}). ([`CREATE TABLE`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-table.md %}), [`INSERT`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/insert.md %}))

Reviewer 2: nit: RLS may be enabled on existing tables. This may seem obvious, but I thought I'd mention it because you could infer here that it can only be set on new tables.

2. [Create roles]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-role.md %}) & [grant access]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/grant.md %}) to schema objects by those roles. ([`CREATE ROLE`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-role.md %}), [`GRANT`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/grant.md %}))
3. Enable row-level security on the schema objects. ([`ALTER TABLE ... ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#enable-disable-row-level-security))
4. Define row-level security policies on the schema objects which are assigned to specific roles. ([`CREATE POLICY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-policy.md %}))

> For detailed examples showing how to use row-level security, see the [examples](#examples).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For demonstrations on how to use row-level security, refer to the [examples](#examples).
```

Author: ✅

## How row-level security policies are evaluated

Policies function as filters or constraints applied automatically by CockroachDB during [query execution]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/architecture/sql-layer.md %}#query-execution). They are based on boolean expressions evaluated in the context of the current [user]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles), [session properties]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/show-sessions.md %}), and the row data itself.

When row-level security is enabled on a table:

1. Existing [SQL privileges]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#supported-privileges) still determine **if** a user can access the table at all (e.g., `SELECT`, `INSERT`).
2. [Row-level security policies]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/show-policies.md %}) determine **which rows** within the table are accessible or modifiable for specific commands.

Further details about RLS evaluation include:

> - All [policies]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/show-policies.md %}) apply to a specific set of [roles]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles). For a policy to be applicable, it must match at least one of the roles assigned to it. If the policy is associated with the `PUBLIC` role, it applies to all roles. In order for reads or writes to succeed, there must be at least one permissive policy for the user's role. 

Reviewer 2: The last sentence may make more sense if it's included with the bullet that mentions how permissive and restrictive policies are combined together.

Author: good suggestion, thanks - moved it to the other bullet and it now reads as 

> - Permissive policies are combined using `OR` logic, while restrictive policies are combined using `AND` logic. The overall policy enforcement is determined by evaluating a logical expression of the form: `(permissive policies) AND (restrictive policies)`.  In order for reads or writes to succeed, there must be at least one permissive policy for the user's role.

> - All [policies]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/show-policies.md %}) apply to a specific set of [roles]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles). For a policy to be applicable, it must match at least one of the roles assigned to it. If the policy is associated with the `PUBLIC` role, it applies to all roles. In order for reads or writes to succeed, there must be at least one permissive policy for the user's role. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All [policies]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/show-policies.md %}) apply to a specific set of [roles]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles). For a policy to be applicable, it must match at least one of the roles assigned to it. If the policy is associated with the `PUBLIC` role, it applies to **all** roles. In order for reads or writes to succeed, there must be at least one permissive policy for the user's role. 
```

Author: think this got moved, punting for now

- The `USING` clause of [`CREATE POLICY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-policy.md %}) filters rows during reads; the `WITH CHECK` clause validates writes, and defaults to `USING` if absent.

## Considerations

### Performance

Complex [policy expressions]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-policy.md %}) evaluated per-row can impact query performance. To limit the performance impacts of row-level security, optimize your policy expressions and consider [indexing]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/indexes.md %}) relevant columns.

### Security privileges

[Policy expressions]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-policy.md %}) execute with the [privileges]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#supported-privileges) of the user invoking the query, unless functions marked [`SECURITY DEFINER`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-function.md %}#create-a-security-definer-function) are used. 

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}

> Functions marked `SECURITY DEFINER` should only be used with **extreme caution** to ensure expressions do not have unintended side effects.

Author: Filed https://cockroachlabs.atlassian.net/browse/DOC-13655 to take as a followup

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Limitations

### SQL language features that bypass row-level security

The following SQL language features bypass row-level security:

- [Foreign keys]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/foreign-key.md %}) (including cascades)
- [Primary key constraints]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/primary-key.md %})
- [Unique constraints]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/unique.md %})
- [`TRUNCATE`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/truncate.md %})

### Change data capture (CDC)

> [CDC]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) messages that are emitted from a table will not be filtered using RLS policies. Furthermore, [CDC queries]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cdc-queries.md %}) are not supported on tables using RLS, and will fail with the error message: `CDC queries are not supported on tables with row-level security enabled`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[CDC]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) messages that are emitted from a table will not be filtered using RLS policies. Furthermore, [CDC queries]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cdc-queries.md %}) are not supported on tables using RLS, and will fail with the error message: `CDC queries are not supported on tables with row-level security enabled`.
```

Author: ✅

### Backup and restore

[Backup and restore]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/backup-and-restore-overview.md %}) functionality does not take RLS policies into account.

### Logical data replication (LDR) and Physical cluster replication (PCR)

[Logical Data Replication (LDR)]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/logical-data-replication-overview.md %}) and [Physical Cluster Replication (PCR)]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-overview.md %}) do not take RLS policies into account.

LDR's [limitations with respect to schema changes]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/manage-logical-data-replication.md %}#schema-changes) also apply to RLS, since RLS policies amount to a schema change.

> If you use PCR, the target cluster will have all RLS policies applied to the data because PCR performs byte for byte replication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use PCR, the target cluster will have all RLS policies applied to the data because PCR performs byte-for-byte replication.
```

Author: ✅

### Views

When [views]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/views.md %}) are accessed, RLS policies on any underlying [tables]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/schema-design-table.md %}) are applied. [Policies]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-policy.md %}) can only be defined directly on tables, not views.

Views use the [role]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles) of the view owner to determine row-level security filters, **not** the role of the user executing the view. This can cause issues because the view owner may have entirely different policies than the user executing the view.

## Examples

### Create a policy

> For an example, see [`CREATE POLICY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-policy.md %}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [`CREATE POLICY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-policy.md %}).
```

Author: ✅

### Alter a policy

> For an example, see [`ALTER POLICY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-policy.md %}).

Reviewer: Ditto

Author: ✅

### Drop a policy

> For an example, see [`DROP POLICY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/drop-policy.md %}).

Author: ✅

### Enable or disable row-level security

> For examples, see:

Reviewer: Ditto

Author: ✅

> - [`ALTER TABLE ... (ENABLE, DISABLE) ROW LEVEL SECURITY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#enable-disable-row-level-security).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`ALTER TABLE ... ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#enable-disable-row-level-security).
```

Author: ✅

> - [`ALTER TABLE ... (FORCE, NO FORCE) ROW LEVEL SECURITY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#force-unforce-row-level-security).

Author: ✅

> ### RLS for Data Security (Fine-Grained Access Control)

Reviewer: Should this be in sentence case?

Author: updated to sentence case

> In a fine-grained access control scenario, we want to restrict access to specific rows within a table based on user [roles]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles), attributes, or relationships defined within the data itself. This goes beyond table-level [`GRANT`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/grant.md %}) permissions. Common examples include restricting access to salary information, personal data, or region-specific records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a fine-grained access control scenario, you will want to restrict access to specific rows within a table based on user [roles]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles), attributes, or relationships defined within the data itself. This goes beyond table-level [`GRANT`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/grant.md %}) permissions. Common examples include restricting access to salary information, personal data, or region-specific records.
```

Author: ✅

> For example, imagine an `employees` table containing sensitive salary information. We want to enforce the following rules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, imagine an `employees` table containing sensitive salary information. You want to enforce the following rules:
```

Author: ✅

- Employees can view their own record.
- Managers can view the records of their direct reports.
- Members of the `hr_department` role can view all records.

#### Set up fine-grained access control schema

> First, define the `hr_department` role and `employees` table, add some data, and grant basic table access:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define the `hr_department` role and `employees` table, add some data, and grant basic table access:
```

Author: ✅

CREATE ROLE manager;
CREATE ROLE employee;

-- Create roles for employees.
CREATE ROLE alice;
CREATE ROLE bob;
CREATE ROLE carol;
CREATE ROLE david;
CREATE ROLE edward;

GRANT hr_department to edward;
GRANT manager to alice, carol;
GRANT employee to alice, bob, carol, david, edward;

-- Assume roles 'hr_department' and potentially others exist.
-- Usernames are assumed to match the 'username' column for simplicity.
CREATE TABLE employees (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    username TEXT UNIQUE NOT NULL,
    full_name TEXT NOT NULL,
    manager_username TEXT,
    salary NUMERIC(10, 2) NOT NULL
);

-- Sample Data
INSERT INTO employees (username, full_name, manager_username, salary) VALUES
('alice', 'Alice Smith', NULL, 120000),
('bob', 'Bob Jones', 'alice', 80000),
('carol', 'Carol White', 'alice', 85000),
('david', 'David Green', 'carol', 70000),
('edward', 'Edward Scissorhands', 'alice', 70000);

-- Grant basic table access (RLS will refine row access)
GRANT SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE ON employees TO hr_department;
GRANT SELECT ON employees TO manager;
GRANT SELECT ON employees TO employee;
~~~

#### Enable row-level security for fine-grained access control

> Next, enable row-level security using the [`ALTER TABLE ... ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#enable-disable-row-level-security) statement. Optionally, you may want to ensure that the table owner is also subject to RLS using [`ALTER TABLE ... FORCE ROW LEVEL SECURITY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#force-unforce-row-level-security).

Author: ✅

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
ALTER TABLE employees ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;
-- Optional: Ensure owner is also subject to policies if needed
-- ALTER TABLE employees FORCE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;
~~~

#### Define row-level security policies for fine-grained access control

> Next, define RLS policies on the table. Policy 1 allows HR full access to the table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, define RLS policies on the table. The `hr_access` policy allows HR full access to the table:
```

Author: done

> Next, define RLS policies on the table. Policy 1 allows HR full access to the table:

Author: done

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE POLICY hr_access ON employees
    FOR ALL -- Applies to SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE
    TO hr_department
    USING (true) -- No row restriction for HR
    WITH CHECK (true); -- No check restriction for HR
~~~

> Policy 2 allows employees to view their own record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `self_access` policy allows employees to view their own record.
```

Author: done (went with "the following" to avoid restating policy names)

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE POLICY self_access ON employees
    AS PERMISSIVE -- Combine with other permissive policies (like manager access)
    FOR SELECT
    TO employee

>     USING (username = current_user);

Author: done

~~~

> Policy 3 allows managers to view their direct reports' records. This requires a way to look up the manager's username. In this example, we use the `current_user` special form of the [function with the same name]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/functions-and-operators.md %}#special-syntax-forms).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `manager_access` policy allows managers to view their direct reports' records. This requires a way to look up the manager's username. In this example, we use the `current_user` special form of the [function with the same name]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/functions-and-operators.md %}#special-syntax-forms).
```

Author: went with "the following policy"

----------------------+----------+-------------+------------------+-----------
  1068380269155876865 | carol    | Carol White | alice            | 85000.00
  1068380269155909633 | david    | David Green | carol            | 70000.00
(2 rows)
~~~

The following statement is executed by a user `edward` belonging to `hr_department`, and returns all rows.

This is expected behavior due to Edward's `hr_department` role having `hr_access` or `self_access` policies.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SET ROLE edward;
SELECT * FROM employees;
RESET ROLE;
~~~

~~~
          id          | username |      full_name      | manager_username |  salary
----------------------+----------+---------------------+------------------+------------
  1068380269155778561 | alice    | Alice Smith         | NULL             | 120000.00
  1068380269155844097 | bob      | Bob Jones           | alice            |  80000.00
  1068380269155876865 | carol    | Carol White         | alice            |  85000.00
  1068380269155909633 | david    | David Green         | carol            |  70000.00
  1068380269155942401 | edward   | Edward Scissorhands | alice            |  70000.00
(5 rows)
~~~

> ### RLS for Multi-Tenant Isolation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### RLS for multi-tenant isolation
```

Author: done

Multi-tenant isolation is used to enforce strict data separation between different tenants (customers, organizations) sharing the same database infrastructure and schema. Each tenant must only be able to see and modify their own data. This is a critical requirement for Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) applications.

For example, imagine a SaaS application serving multiple tenants, with all invoice data residing in a single `invoices` table. This table is distinguished by a `tenant_id` column. The application ensures that each user session is associated with a specific `tenant_id`.

#### Create multi-tenant schema

> First, create the schema and index for the `tenants` and `invoices` tables. Next, add an index on `tenant_id` for increased lookup performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the schema and index for the `tenants` and `invoices` tables. Then add an index on `tenant_id` for increased lookup performance.
```

-- Invoice for Tenant A
INSERT INTO invoices (tenant_id, customer_name, amount) VALUES
    ('9607a12c-3c2f-407b-ae3c-af903542395b', 'Customer One', 1500.75);

-- Invoice for Tenant B
INSERT INTO invoices (tenant_id, customer_name, amount) VALUES
    ('8177c2fc-3b55-47b7-bf84-38bd3a3e9c0a', 'Customer Two', 899.00);

-- Another invoice for Tenant A
INSERT INTO invoices (tenant_id, customer_name, amount) VALUES
    ('9607a12c-3c2f-407b-ae3c-af903542395b', 'Customer Three', 210.50);

-- Invoice for Example Corp (assuming its UUID was generated)
INSERT INTO invoices (tenant_id, customer_name, amount)
    SELECT tenant_id, 'Customer Four', 5000.00
    FROM tenants WHERE name = 'Example Corp';

-- Invoice for Global Widgets Ltd. (assuming its UUID was generated)
INSERT INTO invoices (tenant_id, customer_name, amount)
    SELECT tenant_id, 'Customer Five', 120.99
    FROM tenants WHERE name = 'Global Widgets Ltd.';

-- Yet another invoice for Tenant B
INSERT INTO invoices (tenant_id, customer_name, amount) VALUES
    ('8177c2fc-3b55-47b7-bf84-38bd3a3e9c0a', 'Customer Six', 345.67);
~~~

#### Define user roles for app developer

> 

Reviewer: Probably needs a line of descriptive text

Author: updated

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE ROLE app_dev;
GRANT SELECT ON tenants TO app_dev;
GRANT SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE ON invoices TO app_dev;
~~~

#### Define how the application sets the tenant ID for the session

> Next, each application will need to set the tenant context for the session. In this example, we will use the `application_name` session variable to pass in a tenant ID which will later be extracted from the variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each application will need to set the tenant context for the session. In this example, you will use the `application_name` session variable to pass in a tenant ID that will later be extracted from the variable.
```

Author: done

Specifically, the UUID following the period in `application_name` is the tenant ID. We will use the `current_setting()` function in our RLS policies to extract the ID.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
For multi-tenancy to work correctly, this setting **must** be reliably managed by the application layer and passed in the connection string.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SET application_name = 'my_cool_app.9607a12c-3c2f-407b-ae3c-af903542395b';
~~~

#### Enable row-level security for multi-tenant isolation

> To enable row-level security for the `invoices` table, issue the statements below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable row-level security for the `invoices` table, issue the following statements.
```

Author: done

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
For multi-tenant isolation to work properly in this example, you **must** also `FORCE ROW LEVEL SECURITY` so that the policies also apply to the table owner.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
ALTER TABLE invoices ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY, FORCE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;
~~~

#### Define tenant isolation policies

The following policy enforces tenant isolation for all operations.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE POLICY tenant_isolation_permissive ON invoices
    AS PERMISSIVE
    FOR ALL
    TO public
    USING (tenant_id = split_part(current_setting('application_name', true), '.', 2)::UUID);

> CREATE POLICY tenant_isolation ON invoices

Reviewer 2: I’m not quite sure what the second policy is intended to show. At first glance, the expressions in both policies appear to be identical. While tenant_isolation_permissive doesn’t include an explicit WITH CHECK, it will still enforce the USING expression for INSERT and UPDATE, and that expression is the same as the WITH CHECK in the other policy.

The only notable difference is the role: one policy is for public, and the other is for app_dev. However, in the example, only the app_dev role is used—so we never really see a scenario where only the first policy applies.

If the goal is to demonstrate how multiple policies with different roles interact, a more illustrative example might involve a role that can read all tenants' data but cannot modify it. In contrast, the app_dev role would enforce tenant-level isolation for both reads and writes. Then, if a user had both roles—say, two users from app_dev and one of them also has this broader-access role—we could observe the combined effect of overlapping policies in action. This may still be a contrived example.

Another idea is to use the role for public to only show results for a default tenant. That way if the application_name is omitted, we still see results.

Author: went with the latter suggestion b/c it seemed simpler. here is what i updated to, PTAL

```sql
CREATE POLICY tenant_isolation_permissive ON invoices
    AS PERMISSIVE
    FOR ALL
    TO public
    USING (tenant_id = COALESCE(
        -- Attempt to extract UUID after the last '.' in application_name
        -- Handle cases where setting is missing, empty, or has no '.'
        NULLIF(split_part(current_setting('application_name', true), '.', 2), '')::UUID,
        -- Default Tenant ID
        'ad7b4529-f5d6-4d0e-8b0f-91af455a70e5'
        )
    );
```

with the following extra explanation

```
- `AS PERMISSIVE`: Necessary because you need at least one permissive policy. The permissive policy above has logic to show results for a default tenant ID if the `application_name` is omitted or improperly formatted.
```

#### Verify multi-tenant isolation policies

To verify that the RLS settings are working as expected, execute the statements in this section. They use two tenants with the following IDs:

- Tenant A, which has ID `9607a12c-3c2f-407b-ae3c-af903542395b`.
- Tenant B, which has ID `8177c2fc-3b55-47b7-bf84-38bd3a3e9c0a`.

First, become the `app_dev` role which the policy applies to.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SET ROLE app_dev;
~~~

Tenant A should see only those columns in `invoices` which have a `tenant_id` column matching its ID.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SET application_name = 'my_cool_app.9607a12c-3c2f-407b-ae3c-af903542395b'; 
SELECT * FROM invoices;
~~~

Tenant B should see only those columns in `invoices` which have a `tenant_id` column matching its ID.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SET application_name = 'my_cool_app.8177c2fc-3b55-47b7-bf84-38bd3a3e9c0a';
SELECT * FROM invoices;
~~~

> Tenant A should not be able to make changes to the `invoice` table for rows which don't have a `tenant_id` column matching its ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tenant A should not be able to make changes to the `invoice` table for rows that don't have a `tenant_id` column matching its ID.
```

Author: done

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SET application_name = 'my_cool_app.9607a12c-3c2f-407b-ae3c-af903542395b';
INSERT INTO invoices (tenant_id, customer_name, amount) VALUES ('8177c2fc-3b55-47b7-bf84-38bd3a3e9c0a'::UUID, 'Customer Three', 123.45);
~~~

> The above statement fails because it violates the policy's `WITH CHECK` constraint, and the following error is signalled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding statement fails because it violates the policy's `WITH CHECK` constraint, and the following error is signaled:
```

Author: done

~~~
ERROR:  new row violates row-level security policy for table "invoices"
~~~

Tenant A should be able to modify rows in the `invoice` table that have a `tenant_id` column matching its ID.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SET application_name = 'my_cool_app.9607a12c-3c2f-407b-ae3c-af903542395b';
INSERT INTO invoices (tenant_id, customer_name, amount) VALUES ('9607a12c-3c2f-407b-ae3c-af903542395b'::UUID, 'Customer Three', 678.90);
~~~

> The above statement succeeds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding statement succeeds.
```

Author: done

~~~
INSERT 0 1
~~~

### Video demo: Row-level Security

> For a demo showing how to combine Row-level security with [Multi-region SQL]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/multiregion-overview.md %}) to constrain access to specific rows based on a user's geographic region, play the following video:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a demo showing how to combine row-level security with [Multi-region SQL]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/multiregion-overview.md %}) to constrain access to specific rows based on a user's geographic region, play the following video:
```

Author: done

{% include_cached youtube.html video_id="ZG8RsfwMaa8" %}

## See also

+ [`SHOW POLICIES`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/show-policies.md %})
- [`CREATE POLICY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-policy.md %})
- [`ALTER POLICY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-policy.md %})
- [`DROP POLICY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/drop-policy.md %})

> - [`ALTER TABLE {ENABLE, DISABLE} ROW LEVEL SECURITY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#enable-disable-row-level-security)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`ALTER TABLE ... ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#enable-disable-row-level-security)
```

Author: done

> - [`ALTER TABLE {FORCE, NO FORCE} ROW LEVEL SECURITY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#force-unforce-row-level-security)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`ALTER TABLE ... FORCE ROW LEVEL SECURITY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#force-unforce-row-level-security)
```

Author: done

- [`CREATE ROLE ... WITH BYPASSRLS`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-role.md %}#create-a-role-that-can-bypass-row-level-security-rls)
- [`ALTER ROLE ... WITH BYPASSRLS`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-role.md %}#allow-a-role-to-bypass-row-level-security-rls)

> <!-- Sqlchecker test cleanup block. NB. This must always come last. Be sure to comment this out when finished writing the doc. -->

Author: ✂️ !

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE POLICY tenant_isolation_permissive ON invoices
    AS PERMISSIVE
    FOR ALL
    TO public
    USING (tenant_id = COALESCE(
        -- Attempt to extract UUID after the '.' in application_name
        -- Handle cases where setting is missing or improperly formatted
        NULLIF(split_part(current_setting('application_name', true), '.', 2), '')::UUID,
        -- If no tenant ID is successfully extracted, use the Default Tenant ID
        'ad7b4529-f5d6-4d0e-8b0f-91af455a70e5'
        )
    );

CREATE POLICY tenant_isolation ON invoices
    AS RESTRICTIVE
    FOR ALL
    TO app_dev
    USING (tenant_id = split_part(current_setting('application_name', true),'.',2)::UUID) -- Filter rows on SELECT/UPDATE/DELETE
    WITH CHECK (tenant_id = split_part(current_setting('application_name', true),'.',2)::UUID); -- Enforce tenant_id on INSERT/UPDATE
~~~

Explanation of policy:

- `AS PERMISSIVE`: Necessary because you need at least one permissive policy. The permissive policy above has logic to show results for a default tenant ID if the `application_name` is omitted or improperly formatted.

> - `AS RESTRICTIVE`: Makes the policy mandatory. If other policies exist, they must *also* pass. For simple tenant isolation, this is often the safest default.

Reviewer 2: I think this is a good example. We should mention that the restrictive policy applies to app_dev role. Meaning, anyone assigned to the app_dev role must use the correctly formatted application_name, and we don't want them to fallback to the default tenant.

Author: thanks, updated to add 

> - `AS RESTRICTIVE`: Makes the policy mandatory. If other policies exist, they must *also* pass. For simple tenant isolation, this is often the safest default. The restrictive policy above applies to the `app_dev` role, so that anyone assigned to the `app_dev` role must use the correctly formatted `application_name`, and is not allowed to fallback to the default tenant ID.

- Permissive policies are combined using `OR` logic, while restrictive policies are combined using `AND` logic. The overall policy enforcement is determined by evaluating a logical expression of the form: `(permissive policies) AND (restrictive policies)`.
- The `USING` clause of [`CREATE POLICY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-policy.md %}) filters rows during reads; the `WITH CHECK` clause validates writes, and defaults to `USING` if absent.

## Considerations

### Performance

Complex [policy expressions]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-policy.md %}) evaluated per-row can impact query performance. To limit the performance impacts of row-level security, optimize your policy expressions and consider [indexing]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/indexes.md %}) relevant columns.

According to internal testing, row-level security had the following performance impacts on a write-heavy [`sysbench`](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench) workload:

| Number of policies | Percentage slowdown of the workload (approx.) |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------|

> | 1                  | 110%                                          |

Author: yes i think that's where i got it! i initially had a "note to self" to check with y'all about whether to keep this. i think i just added it while doing research and forgot to leave in the broken link `xxx` tag i usually use to mark things that need clarification. 

for now i've removed it entirely, and if we do get customer questions going forward we could think about adding something. we don't usually publish performance numbers but sometimes we do e.g. https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v25.1/column-level-encryption.html#performance-considerations 

it's usually done after initial docs in response to customer support stuff that comes up, but in this case premature - thanks for catching this

### Backup and restore

[Backup and restore]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/backup-and-restore-overview.md %}) functionality does not take RLS policies into account.

### Logical data replication (LDR) and Physical cluster replication (PCR)

[Logical Data Replication (LDR)]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/logical-data-replication-overview.md %}) and [Physical Cluster Replication (PCR)]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-overview.md %}) do not take RLS policies into account.

LDR's [limitations with respect to schema changes]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/manage-logical-data-replication.md %}#schema-changes) also apply to RLS, since RLS policies amount to a schema change.

If you use PCR, the target cluster will have all RLS policies applied to the data because PCR performs byte for byte replication.

### Views

> When [views]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/views.md %}) are accessed, RLS policies on any underlying [tables]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/schema-design-table.md %}) are applied. [Policies]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-policy.md %}) can also be defined directly on views.

Author: thanks, updated to say 

> [Policies]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-policy.md %}) can only be defined directly on tables, not views.

> Views use the [role]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles) of the view owner to determine row-level security filters, **not** the role of the user executing the view. This can cause issues because the view owner may have entirely different policies than the user executing the view.

Author: i wrote this section based on this part (1) of the [eng design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FM9ZzW6EbfyJgYnZHyMCYIb5jDUgpG2pT4VNIvT-50s/edit?tab=t.0)

re: your comment, are you saying we should add something like the following edited version of your comment to the end of this paragraph to be more explicit?

> This differs from PostgreSQL, which has the opposite default, and executes the view as the user executing the query from an RLS enforcement perspective.

I hope the other stuff from the eng design doc is captured adequately, but please let me know if not, happy to update!

(1):
> For views, the query is executed using the privileges of the view owner, not the user invoking the view. This creates challenges for RLS because the view owner may have entirely different policies than the user running the view. We will document this behavior and address it in the future. For reference, PostgreSQL allows defining views with a security_invoker attribute, which runs the view with the caller's privileges. Implementing a similar feature is a potential follow-up.
> PostgreSQL also offers a security_barrier attribute for views. This attribute instructs the optimizer to process policy filtering first, ensuring that UDFs never receive rows violating RLS policies. However, it restricts the optimizer’s plan choices, potentially resulting in suboptimal performance. We do not plan to include this attribute in the MVP but will consider it in a future iteration, especially as we support more complex RLS expressions, such as subqueries.

> Views use the [role]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles) of the view owner to determine row-level security filters, **not** the role of the user executing the view. This can cause issues because the view owner may have entirely different policies than the user executing the view.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, the design document is wrong sorry. This found out late in the cycle. We tried to capture the current behaviour here: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/138918#issuecomment-2847697495

> Views use the [role]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles) of the view owner to determine row-level security filters, **not** the role of the user executing the view. This can cause issues because the view owner may have entirely different policies than the user executing the view.

Author: ah ok thanks, i updated to capture the info from that comment instead

> The following security attributes for views are unimplemented:

Author: I have removed them for now, we can always add them back later if needed

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SET ROLE edward;
SELECT * FROM employees;
RESET ROLE;
~~~

~~~
          id          | username |      full_name      | manager_username |  salary
----------------------+----------+---------------------+------------------+------------
  1068380269155778561 | alice    | Alice Smith         | NULL             | 120000.00
  1068380269155844097 | bob      | Bob Jones           | alice            |  80000.00
  1068380269155876865 | carol    | Carol White         | alice            |  85000.00
  1068380269155909633 | david    | David Green         | carol            |  70000.00
  1068380269155942401 | edward   | Edward Scissorhands | alice            |  70000.00
(5 rows)
~~~

The following statement is executed by the user `alice`, and fails because it violates the `self_access` policy's `WITH CHECK` clause since Alice tries to update Bob's salary, and `manager_access` doesn't grant `UPDATE`.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SET ROLE alice;
UPDATE employees SET salary = 999999 WHERE username = 'bob';
RESET ROLE;
~~~

~~~

> ERROR: user alice does not have UPDATE privilege on relation employees

Author: ah thanks for clarifying, i updated it to `GRANT SELECT, UPDATE ON employees TO manager;` and got the RLS `manager_access` policy to trigger and update zero rows in this instance. I think this example is a bit awkward and may want to revisit post-v25.2 Cloud release. But at least it does show RLS triggering the denial of `UPDATE`

> ERROR: user alice does not have UPDATE privilege on relation employees

Author: hmmm on further consideration and testing this out more, i have removed this example of Alice trying to update Bob's salary for now

Next, each application will need to set the tenant context for the session. In this example, we will use the `application_name` session variable to pass in a tenant ID which will later be extracted from the variable.

Specifically, the UUID following the period in `application_name` is the tenant ID. We will use the `current_setting()` function in our RLS policies to extract the ID.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
For multi-tenancy to work correctly, this setting **must** be reliably managed by the application layer and passed in the connection string.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SET application_name = 'my_cool_app.9607a12c-3c2f-407b-ae3c-af903542395b';
~~~

#### Enable row-level security for multi-tenant isolation

To enable row-level security for the `invoices` table, issue the statements below.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
For multi-tenant isolation to work properly in this example, you **must** also `FORCE ROW LEVEL SECURITY` so that the policies also apply to the table owner.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
ALTER TABLE invoices ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;

> -- Consider applying to owner/admins too unless bypassed explicitly

Author: removed that comment, thanks

> ALTER TABLE invoices FORCE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;

Author: TIL! done

~~~

#### Define tenant isolation policies

The following policy enforces tenant isolation for all operations.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
-- CREATE POLICY tenant_isolation ON invoices AS RESTRICTIVE FOR ALL TO public USING (tenant_id = split_part(current_setting('application_name', true), '.', 2)::UUID) WITH CHECK (tenant_id = split_part(current_setting('application_name', true), '.', 2)::UUID);

CREATE POLICY tenant_isolation ON invoices
    AS RESTRICTIVE
    FOR ALL
    TO app_dev
    USING (tenant_id = split_part(current_setting('application_name', true),'.',2)::UUID) -- Filter rows on SELECT/UPDATE/DELETE
    WITH CHECK (tenant_id = split_part(current_setting('application_name', true),'.',2)::UUID); -- Enforce tenant_id on INSERT/UPDATE
~~~

Explanation of policy:

> - `AS RESTRICTIVE`: Makes this policy mandatory. If other policies exist, they must *also* pass. For simple tenant isolation, this is often the safest default.

Author: ah that explains why i was having trouble, thank you

i added the following (perhaps unnecessarily verbose) policy and the multi-tenant examples work as expected:

```sql
CREATE POLICY tenant_isolation_permissive ON invoices
    AS PERMISSIVE
    FOR ALL
    TO public
    USING (tenant_id = split_part(current_setting('application_name', true), '.', 2)::UUID);
```

please let me know if you think this can be simplified, happy to update it

- `FOR ALL`: Covers all data modification and retrieval.
- `TO PUBLIC`: Applies the policy broadly. Roles should primarily manage table-level access using `GRANT`, while this policy handles row-level visibility.
- `USING`: Ensures queries only see rows matching the session's tenant ID, which is passed in using the `application_name` session variable and extracted using the `split_part` function.

> - `WITH CHECK`: Prevents users from `INSERT`ing rows with a tenant ID column different from their session's calculated tenant ID, or `UPDATE`ing a row to change its `tenant_id` column across tenant boundaries. Without this, a user could potentially insert data into another tenant's space.

Author: i've updated the description of this expression with this info:

> In this case, the `WITH CHECK` expression could have been omitted; it is only necessary if it's different than the `USING` expression, or if it applies to a command that doesn't do reads (e.g., for `INSERT`).

Tenant A should be able to modify rows in the `invoice` table that have a `tenant_id` column matching its ID.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SET application_name = 'my_cool_app.9607a12c-3c2f-407b-ae3c-af903542395b';
INSERT INTO invoices (tenant_id, customer_name, amount) VALUES ('9607a12c-3c2f-407b-ae3c-af903542395b'::UUID, 'Customer Three', 678.90);
~~~

The above statement succeeds.

### Video demo: Row-level Security

For a demo showing how to combine Row-level security with [Multi-region SQL]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/multiregion-overview.md %}) to constrain access to specific rows based on a user's geographic region, play the following video:

{% include_cached youtube.html video_id="ZG8RsfwMaa8" %}

## See also

+ [`SHOW POLICIES`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/show-policies.md %})
- [`CREATE POLICY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-policy.md %})
- [`ALTER POLICY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-policy.md %})
- [`DROP POLICY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/drop-policy.md %})
- [`ALTER TABLE {ENABLE, DISABLE} ROW LEVEL SECURITY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#enable-disable-row-level-security)

> - [`ALTER TABLE {FORCE, UNFORCE} ROW LEVEL SECURITY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#force-unforce-row-level-security)

Author: Fixed here and in all the other places you found it, thanks!
